When you look
at the words in the way
that the apostle Paul worded things,
he said: “I live by faith
in the Son of God,
who loved me
and handed himself over for me.”
And we can really see
the very personal nature
of the ransom to the apostle Paul.
And it’s important for us to do
—as our commenters
pointed out nicely—
it is important for us
to personalize the ransom.
The apostle Paul, in Hebrews 6:5,
showed the very personal nature;
he understood the personal nature
of the Bible and the ransom.
In Hebrews 6:5,
he uses this expression:
“And who have tasted
the fine word of God
and powers
of the coming system of things.”
Well, it’s interesting
he used the word “taste.”
Taste is something very personal.
Somebody can’t taste
something for you.
You have to put it
in your mouth in order
to really know
what it’s going to taste like.
So, too, with the ransom.
And what practical ways
can we “taste,”
or personalize,
the ransom for us?
Let’s just consider
a couple this morning.
One is personal fears.
‘Does God really love me?
Am I worthy of love?’
Sometimes the “what-ifs”
and their cousins, the “could-bes,”
they come to live and never leave.
You know, if bad things
or trials or difficulties happen to us,
we begin to reason,
‘Well, Jehovah God maybe doesn’t love me.’
There’s really strong reason for us
to somehow believe
in cause and effect.
We see the cause of things and effect,
and so after a while,
everything that happens to us,
we begin to look at some cause
and even begin to think
that maybe Jehovah
doesn’t love us.
Even if we’re a good person
and bad things happen to us,
we begin to wonder,
‘Others my age are healthy.’
Some leaving
or changing assignments,
you hear everything
falls into place
for them within a few weeks.
‘I’m still looking for a job.
I’m still looking for work.’
In other words,
do not try to reason
that just because things
don’t work out perfectly
that Jehovah doesn’t love us.
It’s not true.
We can still be doing very,
very good things,
and yet some difficulties
can face us.
For example,
you’re driving down the road,
obeying all the traffic laws.
You pull up to a red light,
you stop,
it turns green, you go through it,
and you get broadsided
by some knucklehead who went
through the red light on the other side.
Well, that’s not your fault.
Are you going to say:
“Well, you know what?
I’m not going to obey traffic laws anymore.
See, it doesn’t pay!”
Well, no!
It was his fault for running
through the traffic light.
And sometimes bad, or difficult,
things can happen to us.
It’s not our fault
or it’s not any sign
that Jehovah doesn’t love us.
So how can reflecting
on the ransom help us
when we have these kinds
of personal fears?
Well, we could start with,
Why do we have the ransom?
Well, because some very bad things
were happening
to some good people
—us—
Adam and Eve’s descendants.
I mean,
Adam sinned and Eve sinned,
yet we suffer.
The ransom is Jehovah’s solution
for those who appreciate it.
It’s his way of telling us,
‘I know bad things are happening,
and I’m working to fix it.’
Yes, when we reflect
on the reason
why Jehovah God
gave us the ransom,
it helps us to know
that Jehovah knows we suffer
from cancer and old age
and the sins and mistakes of others
and even our own imperfections.
See, tasting of the ransom in this way
means we’ll not get the feeling
that Jehovah doesn’t love us
when trials befall us.
To the contrary, the ransom
is the greatest expression
of Jehovah’s and Jesus’ love for us
and their desire to fix
the current mess we live in now.
How about,
let’s consider a second way
that we could reflect
on the ransom,
and that is the death
of someone close to us.
Anyone who’s had someone
very close to them die
knows the very helpless feeling
that you have,
knowing that there’s
really nothing you can do.
In that instant when they die,
your hope
—your faith in the resurrection
based on the ransom—
becomes more real to you
than any time in your entire life.
In Acts 17:31,
in a beautiful speech
that the apostle Paul gave,
he highlights
that Jesus’ death
and resurrection and the ransom
was really a guarantee
that we have.
Here in Acts 17:31,
he says: “Because he has set a day
on which he purposes
“to judge the inhabited earth
in righteousness
“by a man
whom he has appointed,
“and he has provided
a guarantee
“to all men
by resurrecting him
from the dead.”
So personalizing the ransom
and all that it makes possible
helps us to know that the resurrection is,
not just possible,
but that Jehovah
and Jesus want to resurrect
our mother, our father,
our beloved husband or a wife.
They care about each person
that has ever lived or died
and know them
so intimately and so completely
that they can resurrect them completely
with all their memories
and personality completely
as we knew them.
I mean, how much more personal
could God’s love for us
become than that?
You know, to bring our loved ones
back from the dead
is the ultimate statement
of Jehovah’s personal interest
in each and every human being.
We are not just collateral damage
in Satan’s war on Jehovah.
The ransom is the way
that Jehovah plans
to undo all the harm
that Satan has caused
since the death of Adam and Eve.
In fact, the resurrection
is really Jehovah’s way
of proving all of Satan’s lies
completely false.
When you think about it today,
Satan can perpetrate
all kinds of lies about what happens
to people after they die.
‘They’re going to go here,
they’re going to go there,
‘they’re going to go to some afterlife,
they’re going to go to some paradise,
they’re going to come back
as some animal.’
But in the new world,
when the vast majority of people
have been resurrected,
that lie isn’t going
to be sold anymore.
Each one can tell everyone
what happened to them
when they died
—nothing,
no afterlife.
Everyone will know
that it’s nonexistence.
That lie won’t work.
See, Jehovah knew
that we would hurt terribly
at the death of loved ones,
so he gave us the ransom
as his way of telling us,
‘I know it hurts,
but please know
that I have
the perfect solution in mind.’
Now, we’ve just considered two ways
to reflect and meditate on the ransom,
like the apostle Paul did,
to really personalize it.
We just talked about personal fears
and the resurrection,
the death of someone close to us.
Imagine how many more ways
we can benefit today
from meditating on the ransom
and how it affects us personally.